hi my name is Richard Madison and author
of Mel Bay's bluegrass Victor's team
book today we're going to look at Salt
Creek which was first known as salt
river salt river is a river in Northern
Kentucky and it uh this first call Salt
River in 1779 after the bullets lick
salt works and they mined salt from
there and they got salt from the natural
salt deposits along the river the
Indians called it seeping salt waters
and it was called Salt Creek and that's
where the names probably derived from
now Salt Creek is a tune in Salt River
in 1929 Clark Kessinger coordinate his
salt river assault remember was similar
in a lot of ways a lot of Irish airs and
similar to the red-haired boy it's also
similar to Molly McGuire and other kind
of Irish flavor tunes
it's because it has the G and the F and
it's a mixolydian meredith's G and half
so it has
like the B part is G because we have so
there's a lot of evidence in it it's a
mixolydian mode what I'm going to do is
I'm going to play through briefly some
of Salt River like here the a part
easily slide up from the e to the G
that's a part now we're gonna look at
the B part from the B part you slide up
to a G chord on the third fret
that's the B part now we're to I'll play
both parts kind of medium speed and see
what they sound like
that's the a part and the B part we're
going to run it over this slowly a
couple times and show you basically what
you're gonna do start off with four
potatoes and then you start the song the
same way I'm gonna do the same thing
again I'll pull out the notes this time
GGG
a g a b c CC because a G a G a G that's
basically the first part you slide up
again
second time he goes CC b c d e f sharp
tree f sharp
so it's the second part is so those are
the notes for that that part now we're
gonna look at the B part of course is
the B part G walk down but it's G start
off with you G chord on the third fret I
slide up for my H will be then I do the
GG I play AG and I go up and he
second time ago
the second lick I'll show you again it's
that's the second leg so the B part
and that's salt Creek